[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hi, I'm Dr. Theresa Bullard,
host of "Mystery Teachings."
Today, we're going to meditate
on the archetype of the world.
Now the world helps us
to become the conductor
of our multi-dimensional
dance of life
and to fully integrate
our true self.
This is where we can reach
true cosmic consciousness
and self-mastery.
Well, let's explore some
practical applications
that you can use to
awaken the world,
to merge your 22
archetypes into one,
and to integrate
with your true self.
Now to begin with, we must
complete our invocation
of the 22 archetypes by working
with the world archetype first
and awaken its power within us.
Here's a formula for invoking
the archetype of the world
into your life.
Once you're ready, find
the world card in your deck
and take it out.
Place this card in front
of you at eye level,
as we've been doing.
And if you have a
meditation stool or cushion,
you can sit on that and place
the card in front of you
on a table, upright so
that you can see it.
Get yourself into a relaxed
position and a light meditative
state.
Take several deep breaths.
Relax your body.
Begin to quiet down your
mind and settle your being.
And as you empty your mind,
make sure you bring yourself
to a positive or at least
a neutral state of being,
so that nothing is disturbing
you mentally or emotionally.
Really come to that point
of stillness within.
And when you feel
that, open your eyes.
And you're going to
look at the image
of the world for about 5 to 10
minutes with your eyes open.
Study its imagery
and its symbolism.
Take in all the details.
Really ingrain it
upon your mind.
Notice any subtleties you
might have missed before.
Contemplate the
meaning of each symbol
and this card as a whole.
I'll remain silent now
for the next five minutes,
as we now meditate on the
symbolism of the card.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
And then after those
first 5 to 10 minutes
of looking at it
with your eyes open,
it's now time to take it inside
and work with it in your mind
for another 10 minutes
with your eyes closed.
So drawing this
image into your mind.
Imagine that the frame
of the card is a doorway.
And on the other
side of that door,
the scenery of the
world card takes shape.
Really build it up
within your mind.
Bring in all the
details, all the colors,
all the characters of this card.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
After those 10 minutes,
once this image
is firmly established in your
mind, let it now come to life.
Move through that doorway
into the scenery of the card
and let it take on a three
dimensional virtual reality
experience for you.
Engage your active imagination
and work with all five senses
to bring this card to life.
And sit there as the
observer for a while.
Notice what the beings
do in this card.
Notice if any of them
have any messages
or certain ways of behaving.
Watch the cosmic dancer
and her dance of life
and feel the energy
that the world emanates.
Let this energy really penetrate
and reverberate throughout you.
Really connect to it deeply.
And then when you
feel that connection
to the energy of the
world, the next step
is to merge with the world.
Become the world.
See yourself as
this cosmic dancer.
Feel her come alive within you.
And when you feel this
energy integrating,
stand up and actually take
on the posture of the world.
Assume this archetypal
form and body position.
Imagine that you're holding
the two wands out to your side
in an open position.
You're balancing
on your right leg,
and you're crossing
your left behind it.
And you might even want
to dance and gracefully
twirl around a bit as you
invoke the world dancer.
So spend just a little
bit of time doing this.
And when you really feel that
energy awakening inside of you,
you're going to use
this affirmation
and state it out loud.
"I am the great one
of the night of time.
I am the universe.
I conduct the dance of life."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Now once you've invoked the
world card into your being,
we're now going to
take this further.
You're now going
to sit and meditate
with your eyes open on the
image of the 231 gates mandala.
And the focus point is the
very center of this mandala.
I'm going to set a timer
for exactly 21 minutes.
And you're going to
meditate upon this mandala
with your eyes open for
that full 21 minutes,
concentrating all
of your attention
on the center point, the Holy
of Holies, the coherence point.
And as you do, imagine
all the 22 archetypes
being drawn together into the
center and merging into one.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Once you've felt that
and accomplished that,
then come to total
stillness within.
Be one in the center.
And then you're going
to use this mantra.
"I am one in the
center of being now.
The center of being now.
Being one in center.
One center.
Center."
And continue to meditate on
the center in silence now.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Be sure to take these
energies and express them
into your outer life.
Bring the primary
color for the world,
which is purple, into your
environment or your dress.
Keep meditating on these
symbols and images daily
and work with these
affirmations that we just used.
Contemplate the
meaning of the world
and how it applies to your life.
And watch for this archetype
to appear in your dreams,
your synchronicities in life,
and analyze its messages.
Pay attention to how
you embody the strengths
and the weaknesses of the
world and consciously work
to make improvements
in these areas.
And remember, this is all
invoking and activating
these archetypes in our lives
that set forces in motion.
So really pay attention.
And also remember that as
you work with the world,
it's ultimately about
merging all 22 into one.
So continue working
with these practices
until you bring all 22
archetypes into coherence
and oneness within you.
I'm Dr. Theresa
Bullard, thank you
for exploring the
mysteries of Tarot
and our
multi-dimensionality with me
in this season of
"Mystery Teachings."
[MUSIC PLAYING]